 So good morning everybody, it looks like there's a number of you in the waiting room and you're getting online slowly here.
 So today is number three in the randomers USA Paris Press Paris prep series this webinar as advertised is going to have a presentation from a trio of people that will be top covering drop bag services at at the event, and then they'll be
 joined by Mark Thomas who will be talking about next steps and current situation with pre registration, and there'll be implications for full registration in all of that.
 So if we can start going here I want to introduce the first group here.
 We have Deb Banks, we have Eric Norris and we have Bill Green, three of the four principles. The fourth is off riding his bike somewhere in Texas.
 Deb, Eric and Bill will be offering drop bag services, and they have a presentation to roll that out to to you guys here.
 So, if we can get started. Deb, did you want to lead off your group please. Sure. Thanks a lot, Rob and good morning everybody.
 Eric, if you're ready to share screen that be great. We'll just go from there.
 All right, we'll see that. Yep, we sure can. Thank you. What that picture is, is a picture of the Ludiac drop bag in service in 2007.
 If when you look at this maybe again later, what you'll see is that there are color coded tags on bags, but we'll get to that a little bit later. First off, I just want to say,
 I'm excited about doing this. And the reason why we decided to do this is because, frankly, none of us wanted to ride pvp this year, but we all wanted to be a part of it in some way shape or form.
 And what better way to do that than to volunteer. And we were out on our bike ride at one point or having coffee I can't remember we were thinking about well how best to volunteer similar to the way Lois and Bill, Bill Springsteen did, who was so exciting for riders to see them.
 They'd come upon like a friendly face someone we know. And we thought, well, how about if we do bag drop service, and then we'll help people get their bags will be able to see them, we get to be a part.
 And that's how this whole idea was born.
 Next slide.
 This is the team, Mark Baining, who's off riding his bike right now in Texas, Bill Green, who's on the call with us here today, myself, and Eric Norris, and between the four of us, we think we have at least 14 pbps, many other 1200 case but we've been to France, a number of times.
 Next slide.
 All right, Eric.
 Okay, thanks Deb. Yeah, well, as Deb mentioned, we thought this would be a great way to stay, you know, to be involved in pvp this year. And I think we also want to do this because we all firmly believe in the value of having a drop bag out on the course.
 We absolutely do pvp without a drop bag. I mean I've seen people do it with us, just a seek bag. But having a drop bag is really great and we'll go into a little bit about what that means. So if you haven't done pvp before that mentioned, there are things called drop bags which is basically
 just a duffel bag that is taken out on the course for you and we're offering a service I mean some people have a friend do it. Some of the other countries will have a club and they'll meet the riders out there but this is a service that we're offering to initially
 bring in Russo to take a drop bag out there and have it for you. So what is a drop bag well if you saw the picture. We're looking we're talking about basically a small duffel bag or like a gym bag about two cubic feet.
 A recommendation to you and double talk about this a little bit more later is to pick something brightly colored that you can pick apart from from all the other drop bags.
 I mean, the Japanese crew, I've got a photograph or some pictures from an earlier pvp, they all had exactly the same bag, the same size the same color, just for the number on it but we're suggesting for our crew that you pick out something that you can
 find in that sea of bags.
 So what do we recommend that the waterproof or water resistant. The picture that Deb showed from 2007. What it didn't show was the water running down the ground, because it, the bags that year were under an overhang but it was raining that year, pretty heavily.
 Everything got wet. So I'll talk in a minute about what to have in your bag but the bag and hopefully everything in it should be packed in a way that they're waterproof.
 I recommend that you put in your bag now first of all I mentioned if you want to go and see a longer video that I did about this a few years ago.
 Go to YouTube look for pbp tips, you'll find my whole playlist of a whole bunch of videos about preparing for pbp and I did want to stand drop bags, but really briefly recommend that you carry two changes of clothes in that drop bag.
 And this is about a third away of the way out on the course. Many people use this to sleep at, but whether you sleep or not this is a great chance to take everything off and put fresh stuff on, especially if you're going to sleep, put it on before you go to sleep you'll
 be a lot more comfortable.
 There's some smelly and dirty out there so good chance of change. Batteries and tail lights, definitely something if anything on your bike runs on batteries or if you're carrying a power bank with you to charge your phone or your computer whatever.
 Stick another couple in your drop bag and switch them out, even if they're not depleted. Just put a new one in every time.
 A big power bank. I usually carry about a 10,000 milliamp one, which is about the size of a kind of a heavy cell phone. You can get bigger ones.
 Get there plug your stuff into the bigger one take your computer off the bike, stick it in the bag plug it in plug your phone in anything else that can charge off that power bank and let it charge while it's in the bag.
 Don't count on finding power outlets there because you won't find them, even if they're there they're going to be taken up by somebody else.
 Bring toiletries or body wipes.
 They do have showers there in Lodiak if you want to take a shower, it costs like a euro something like that they'll give you a big disposable towel to dry off with. But if you want to bring any of your own toothbrush, soap, whatever, stick it in your drop bag.
 I like body wipes I use these. The last time I did pbp. They're just big wet wipes carry a bunch of these I mean they weigh almost nothing.
 It's faster than taking a shower and you get almost as clean and you avoid all the having to dry off kind of stuff.
 Carry spares in your drop bag. So maybe a couple tubes a spare tire. If you want to throw like a chain in there. Things that you may may not want to carry all the time on the bike but you know if you use a tube out on the road.
 Come back, you get the Lodiak replace that tube if you use a tire or whatever.
 Stuff that you don't want to have to carry for the whole 1200 K food and drink but I say here with within limits because you are you are at Lodiak.
 It is a control they have a cafeteria they've got all kinds of stuff there for you.
 But if you get there particularly if you're just going to go sleep. I found it works really well to maybe have, you know, like an ensure or something like that.
 Something to nibble on. So you get there change your clothes nibble on something.
 Go sleep. And then maybe when they wake up, go get more food. Just a way to get through the control faster. And as I put everything in Ziploc bags. So what I do is I'll put like a change of clothes into a big Ziploc bag it's got a big number on it like number two number three.
 Everything in that bag should be in Ziplocs, just in case it gets rainy and wet.
 I've already showed this but this is a picture again of where the drop bags all are and you can see here this is actually the USA portion, and you'll see that they're all, you know, all kind of differently colored and so on.
 Anything that's going to help you pick out your bag in a dimly lit, chaotic crowded situation like this is going to be good.
 Deb, do you want to pick up this part.
 You're muted Deb.
 Thanks. While Eric just spoke quite a bit about gym bags and duffel bags etc. For me, I like the idea of using a backpack. That way I could pick it up sling it on my back, especially if I was staying someplace outside of Ludiac, because you're going to want to take your bag someplace.
 You know, wherever your hotel is and then maybe carry it back.
 We did speak to a couple people that have a loot have a hotel perhaps in Ludiac, and they're going to take their drop bag, take it to their hotel, leave it in their hotel, until they're on the return to France, or on the return to Paris sorry, and then drop return the drop bag to the drop bag service, and then continue on, which is totally fine.
 But I like the idea of carrying something really bright, have it like the bags in the back, maybe put reflective tape on it because that is a dim room, and if you are carrying a light, or we're carrying a light, then you can see it easily.
 Lastly, which of the bags here don't belong. Look at that care for bag in the front of that picture. Full disclosure, I once use something like that as a drop bag on a domestic 1200 K that I was doing, and I'm ashamed that I did it.
 I had just taken possession of a brand new house the day before and had to haul down to where the start was and I was a disaster. The organizers were fabulous, and my drop bag actually made it this, you know, similar to a care for bag, but it is not what we're looking for
 not in the least. So, go for the brightly colored zippered easy to carry bags, and don't be like I was the Schmo who carried a shopping bag as their drop bag, because guess what, we won't accept it.
 Okay, let's go on.
 So here's the plan to date, as we know it. I know I think thanks everybody who sent responses to the survey that we sent out. I know a couple months or so ago, we had about 300 people that responded to that survey.
 The majority of people were 90 hour folks are people that are aspiring to ride the 90 hours. There were some 84 hours and 80 hour people in there as well.
 So if you're planning on trying to Charlie Miller, I'm telling you right now, this drop bag service is not for you.
 So, if you're trying to Charlie Miller, this is probably not your best gig.
 But, but for everybody else we think that we can accommodate everybody. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to set up a registration that's electronic.
 We're going to set the price at $75 for one bag. We've just talked about the size of bags and about what that should look like. And we're going to have registration open in June.
 We're thinking about June because by then almost everybody will have no we'll have a much better picture about whether or not they're going or not, if they've qualified or not, if they're feeling healthy or not, they still are interested or not, etc.
 And that will all be electronic. We would prefer not to take day of registrations. So once we're in France, and somebody comes up to us and says, I never got around to it.
 Will you take our drop bag. We will only in the event that we have space. So the pre registration allows us to really calculate the size of the van and how many bags we can take, which leads me to my next point.
 We are thinking that we will be renting to back to Vans, which approximately can carry between the two bands 300 to 350 bags. That's not everybody who's probably going to pbp with random nurse USA, but it might be, we'll see, we'll find out.
 Okay, once we are all in Rambiae, we are hoping for bag drop drop off to be on the grounds in Rambiae. I know that we're not having a specific check in this year like they have in years past, but there is still a festival going on the concourse to machines that's going on.
 There will be people from all over, and they're sort of this large gathering place and I'm assuming that that's about where we're going to be this year as we were four years ago. Our exact location we don't know yet.
 However, we are going to have the big roosa banner that you're seeing on the slide, we're taking that with us, and we'll have that up on the van so you will not be able to miss us, and hopefully we'll know exactly where we are prior to getting to Rambiae, and we'll be able to tell
 everybody look for us here in the parking lot as you're walking to the central space, or within those large grounds. Either way, we think that's probably where we'll end up. However, we don't know yet a detail still to be nailed down.
 Once you come and find us, you're going to drop your bag off, we're going to tag it, we're going to give you a wristband, and that way when we're hoping you're just going to wear that wristband. And that way when we find you in Ludiak, then, or you find us in Ludiak, we'll easily be able to match your wristband with your number, help you find your bag,
 get it into your hands and then off you go.
 And so the exciting thing we think about Ludiak is that you get access to your bag twice on the outbound and on the inbound. And as I just said earlier, if you decide that you want to, if you have a hotel or something in Ludiak and you want to take it there and leave it there.
 You can come with us as long as you get it back to us before we are heading back to Ramblier at the end of when Ludiak, when the Ludiak control closes. That's when we're going to leave as well.
 So you look for the Russa banner, you find us, we give you a hug, we give you your bag and you're off on your way.
 The bags will not be left alone. They will always be somebody there with them. We are have four of us so that we can a schlep all the bags, get them there, get them situated, but then also keep an eye on them, and we'll be working in teams so it'll probably be Mark and myself and Eric and Bill.
 But one of the four of us for sure will always be in the bag drop space. So, you know, while they're inside of the grounds in Ludiak, then there will also be with them so they're going to be safe and sound.
 Once you're past Ludiak and you're on your way back to Paris, back to Ramblier, we will scoop all the bags up as soon as the Ludiak control closes and we will drive back to Ramblier, and then again we'll have the big Russa banner out.
 And after you're done riding, you'll be able to access your drop bag. So you'll be able to retrieve it in the same place, hopefully, from which, from where you dropped it off. This is another reason why I like the backpack idea.
 You'll have your bike, maybe you put your drop bag on your back, on your back, and it's easy to walk through the grounds and get to wherever you need to go. Okay, next slide. I know that was a lot.
 Yeah, well, before we leave the slide, just back on the backpack thing, probably your best way to get the bags to us is when you go for bike check, because you're going to have to go right by where we are.
 If you've been there before, you know, if you go to the train station between there and where you check in is where we're going to be. There's a, you know, RV parking area.
 And something you can carry on your bike while you're riding it like a backpack is going to be perfect. So it's just a good rule of thumb if it's too big and too bulky to carry while you're riding your bike from the train station to bike check, it's probably too big.
 Okay, just an interjection here. I don't think that there is a specific bike check. Before PBP I think that they are intending to do that out on the course.
 This would prevent people from getting their bike checked and then removing the things that were required because they want to be lighter.
 Okay.
 Then you'll need to find us. Yeah, we'll be there. Yeah, there'll be some other form of check in I imagine.
 Right. So, so there's a lot of what ifs here, and I'm going to try to go over them fairly quickly. What if, what if I don't qualify. Can I get a refund.
 The answer is no. That's one of the reasons why we're moving this out to June. We figure by then you'll have a pretty darn good idea, whether or not you're going to be able to get to France.
 What if I DNF, will you get my bags back to me sooner so I can get moving. No, we're going to be, we're taking care of all of the people that have this service from us.
 When Lodiak closes that is when we'll leave. If you get back before us. That's great. Rest, drink a beer, sleep, hang out with people, and we'll get there as soon as we can.
 What if what if what if I forget to pick up my bag. Will you send it to me. No, we won't.
 And to go on to other vacations or get back to the United States. So when the whole PPP closes, which I believe is Saturday.
 We are going to be giving your leftover drop bag to some French kids. No, not really, but we'll figure out if there's some kind of a lost and found, but your best plan for this is to not leave it.
 So I know everybody's groggy and super tired when you get back, but you got to remember, hey, I've got these really stinky clothes, and an old tire in a, in a drop bag, I need to retrieve it.
 Okay, what if I over pack. Can I service, can I purchase a service for two drop bags. No, we're going for one medium drop bag, that'll be easier for you to manage, and a lot easier for us to manage.
 I was asked in the chat. Is there a weight limit on these bags, and the answer is not a hard and fast one. But if I can't pick it up and I'm an old lady with bad hands now, then guess what, it might not make it out to the act.
 So please be conscientious about how much you put in those drop bags and how heavy they are be really thrifty about weight.
 What if I'm staying outside of Rambley a will you drop it off at my hotel. No, we're not doing a specific service for folks of that nature.
 There are some other people that are then that are going to be vendors for a drop back service, you may want them to use to use their service instead of hours.
 And you can do a little search on figuring out who some of those people are off the top of my head. I can't remember what their names are because I'm really focused on what we're going to provide and provide for you guys.
 What if I leave my bag in my hotel in or new in or near Ludiac. Will you get it for me. No. Take it to wherever you're staying. Bring it back to us pretty straightforward tandem writers two bags. Yes, Brent, because each person gets a bag.
 One bag per person. That's what we're shooting for. What if you get to Ludiac before. What if you get back to Ludiac before we do.
 We will get there as soon as we can, and get your bags back to you. What if you get to Ludiac before we do, then we're not going to try to hold you up. We will try to get your bag to you as fast as we can.
 We can't not actually completely promise things because there's a lot of variables. Maybe there's a road closure or flooding who knows what's going to go on, but we're going to do our darndest to get bags out there before anybody arrives in Ludiac on the outbound.
 Okay, next.
 What about the last bullet they're done about getting back first. If you get back to Ramble a before bag drop arise, hang out, wait, because we're getting there as soon as possible. Remember, we're going to have to load up all 300 bags, and then we unload them again, once we get back to Ramble a so we should be okay.
 There is somebody on the on the on the zoom that says finding bags in Ludiac can be a pain, and that's true. And I just recently had a horrible bag situation with an airline, and it took three weeks for the bag to finally get back to me.
 If I put an Apple air tag in it, this was the big hello, then I would have been able to find my, my bag. And that's, that's the tip here is to put in an Apple air tag in your bag because in that sea of bags, you'll be able to say, ah, I see it I can help you get to it.
 Air tags are fabulous.
 So more details are coming as we can as as they, as they're coming our way we'll get them to you. We can look for information from us from between the controls from the Russa Facebook page from the RBAs, we will be pushing out information RBAs and dispersing that information from them, hopefully to you all.
 And then from us, we just created an email address specific for this, and it's pbp 23 bag drop at gmail.com. And that way you'll get to one of us and we will get back to you with any information and questions that you might have.
 Eric, did you want to add something. I was going to say if you put an air tag in there. I know I've got an iPhone I think most of us have iPhones you can watch your bags drive across France to kind of fun.
 So if you're wondering am I going to is my bag going to get to Lodiak before I am you can just say find my air tag and then you'll know, you'll know exactly where it is.
 There was one question. A couple questions in in the chat one was just a suggestion put a towel in the bag that's that's great.
 Those big paper towels are kind of fun but they do tend to fall apart. So you might want to think about putting a towel in your bag and again put the Ziploc bag.
 And then Jack Holmgren asked, what is reality. Jack that's a great question which will delve into another more esoteric version of this chat.
 So Eric, if, if your presentation is done. Yeah, if you could stop sharing the screen.
 Here we go. Okay, so what we'll do is at this point I'd like to ask any of the participants. If you have more questions about the drop bag service and the presentation today.
 Go ahead and add those to the Q&A function right now.
 Most of those were answered. Most of those that were collected so far got were answered in sort of real time by Deb and by Eric. But nevertheless, while Mark is giving his presentation you can send more questions about the drop bag presentation.
 So what we'll do is have Deb, Eric and Bill read the best or the most frequent questions that come up allowed so that they will be part of this recording, and then they'll provide answers as well.
 So next up, we have Mark Thomas who will be talking about next steps for pre registration and implications for final registration. And while he's speaking again if you have questions and then into the Q&A function.
 And while Mark is presenting, Deb, Eric and Bill will look those questions over and be prepared to read them into the, the recording that we're making here so Mark if I can turn this over to you.
 Okay, thanks Rob.
 Thank you so much everyone. I'll talk endlessly about PVP. I have a kind of a dry subject today which is pre registration and registration and next steps so with any luck, I will figure out how to share screen here.
 And let's see. So, pre registration, I'm going to guess that most of the people on the call have pre registered for PVP already but if you haven't you can it's currently open to all riders regardless of whether you wrote a Brevet like
 last year or not.
 Pre registration is kind of foolish. I'm in terms of picking a start slot as of yesterday mid days the last time I looked there were 19 spaces available for 80 hours starts.
 There were 630, 434, 45, and 5. There were a few spaces left for 90 hour starts but they were exclusively in the F group for special bikes for tandems and recumbents etc.
 So, if you want a 90 hour start there's no start time that you can pick at this point.
 There's still quite a few spaces available for 84 hours starts, both for special bikes and for regular bikes the last two starts have quite a few spaces available in them.
 And as of yesterday 113 riders who said they wanted to do 90 hours, but didn't choose the start group. And we'll get to that in a minute in terms of what's going to happen with that but they will be given a start group later.
 So you know they've announced a limit of 8,000 participants for PVP. It's currently a little oversubscribed. I think I saw 8,025 pre registrants.
 Based on past experience the ACP expect a bunch of pre registrants not to register so they're allowing some over subscription at this point that current working cap looks from what I've seen to be about 8300.
 There were 19 that were quite a few pre registrants who didn't register was around 20% of the people who pre registered not register so it's reasonable to expect a lot of slots will open up.
 I think if you want to go to PVP and you qualify your almost certainly going to get a slot in it but that's just my guess.
 And to be sure I would suggest pre registering now to hold the spot. If you have looked at pre registration you know that it's a 50 euro feet of pre register and that's not refundable so.
 I mean that's not nothing but it's not a huge amount to hold hold the space.
 So, that's pre registration the next business if you're pre registered is to get yourself qualified and to register and I'll talk a little bit about registration but let's talk first about what you need to do to qualify to go.
 And the rule says you have to complete a super random nerve survey series that's a 200 K 300 K 400 K and the 600 K of ACP sanction braves in 2023.
 The first point that 2023 is a term of art that doesn't mean what you think it means it means between November 1 2022 and June 30 2023.
 So you need to, many people have done some of the braves or one of the braves already or maybe got some of them done last year a lot of eager beavers may have already achieved all of their qualifiers.
 They also allow longer events to substitute for shorter ones so you could do two 300 of 400 and a 600 the ACP sanctions 1000 K braves, you could do four of those, if you're particularly eager.
 I'll say that braves to me are not really just for qualification of course that's pretty important but I think they're also great testing and training opportunities good chance to try to.
 You know the bike the way you think it'll be written try to feed yourself the way you think you're going to have to feed yourself.
 You know, here is the stuff you expect to carry on a longer break this is a good chance to test it especially on the 400 or 600 where you're riding a long time, get some idea of how all of this is going to work.
 And of course, for is a fun that's I think why we do this.
 Just to clarify one thing the keyword in in what I said about what you need to qualify is that they have to be ACP sanction braves and if you have any doubt about whether a rider doing in the US is an ACP sanction braves use the ride search on the website to
 prevent the event type and what you'll see if you look at events and here's a smattering of April events, you'll see that it gives you the location, the type of event, and the date and the distance so the only ones account are the ones that say ACP Brevet, they're under the type.
 And they say roosa something roosa popular roosa Brevet, they can't be used to qualify if they say ACP flesh 360 K doesn't matter if you wrote 400 K you can't use it can't use it for any event UAF braves there are a few of those around the country which is the audit style braves, they don't count.
 And what's the surprise to some people is that 1200 K's, the quick and dirty that marks riding in Texas all I think he's about 1000 but 1200 case don't count either they're sanctioned by another group so don't plan to use 1200 K as one of your events.
 If you schedule wise you need to do it and see if there's a 1000 K option that you can use during that.
 In May, they're going to open pvp for registration it's going to be done the same way you pre registered, you got the same website use same login credentials and what you'll need are the term they use this homologation numbers on the on the roosa website your results will say certificate
 registration number that you need the homologation numbers of at least three of your for qualifying braves to initiate your final registration. If you just have to, you're going to have to wait until you have a third one to start.
 And when you do it, you can either put three in and add the fourth later or you can just complete the whole thing with all four steps.
 And you can finalize the registration fee at 190 euros. If you've pre registered and paid 50. That's a credit against the 190.
 And when you register if you don't like the start time that you picked it registration you can change that's pre registration you can change that start wave subject to whatever places are available then and I'll talk a little bit more about this in a minute.
 Okay, these are the dates you need to know on May 27 registration opens before then relax ride your bike. There's nothing you can do with your pvp registration.
 On June 10, if you pre registered and you have not yet started your registration with three of your for verbase, you're going to lose your start wave choice. They're going to release that start wave to the pool of other riders.
 The event is not lost on the 10th. But when you do register you're going to have to choose from whatever is available at that time.
 The release start wave slots when they get released and do intent I think they're going to be allocated to riders to chose 90 hours but didn't choose the start wave because none of them were available that was, like I said about 115 of those yesterday.
 They're going to be allocated the remaining release start wave slides will be available to riders who want to change their start wave choice from what they made earlier.
 And just to point out that if you want to meet this to intent line and not have your, your plot given up your third qualifier, assuming it's on a weekend should be no later than the weekend of June 3. And even that's requiring that you get the ride done the army get gets your results
 done and rusa submits and gets the certificate number published that should happen. Okay, for June 3 verbase, but it could be a little tight.
 June 20, according to the emails we all got with our pre registrations the, the, if you haven't registered, they're just going to cancel your registration.
 That's what they said.
 That was before they announced the June 10 thing I'm not 100% sure that's still the way it's going to work but I think so.
 If you want to meet that June 20 deadline.
 It's possible you could meet it with a break down the weekend of June 17 and 18. But again, that'll be even tighter because it's just basically, you need the 19th for all of the rusa RBA magic to happen.
 On June 25. That's the last day you can tell the ACP you don't want to go and cancel your registration and get a refund of your registration fee less $50 with 50 euros which is not refundable.
 July 2 is the final deadline for registering if you haven't registered by then you can't register.
 If you've initiated your registration with just three of your brace but haven't put your fourth one in you'd better put the fourth one in by then, or you're not going to be registered.
 And again to make this happen.
 I'm your last per day or fourth per day.
 Pretty much has to be no later than the weekend of June 24 and 25.
 I know a lot of people were not particularly pleased with how quickly start waves filled up, especially if they didn't have longer braves last year.
 And so what they've said is that you can change start waves. Sorry about this at registration subject to available places.
 In the past, after you completed your registration the ACP validated it, you can't change your start wave anymore so you might kind of wonder well what happens here.
 If I have to register before June 10, but the slots aren't released then what and so I asked them that question and what they said, it appears that they're going to allow an option for you to register and say,
 when I start wave I want to change it when more start waves are available and what they said, I quoted exactly what the email from ACP said this morning which is between May 27 and June 10 they won't validate your registration if you say, hey I still want to change my start.
 So it should be that on June 10, a bunch of start times will be available and you should have some opportunity to change it if either you're in the group that didn't pick one or you got one that you didn't like.
 I think that's all I had to say about it.
 Great. Thank you Mark. One question that I have, which hasn't been asked in the q amp a function is, do you know how to navigate to the point where you would make some of these changes, for example, in communication with the ACP.
 They referred to a cancel button, which I was unable to find in going to my account and logging in I couldn't find a cancel button, but I did find a delete button for the account which I think was a bit too drastic sounding and not what they were referring to.
 Yeah, the answer is I don't know exactly but what you'll see when you go into register we a screen that doesn't is doesn't exist yet. Oh, which is a registration screen to register and I think at that point you'll have a different set of options than you had in pre registration and it may in fact include a cancel my pre registration or delete button, but I'm not sure.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 So, if you could stop sharing your screen then.
 Thanks. So, we, I guess should be commending Deb Eric and bill for an excellent presentation presentation because precious few questions have come up.
 There's a couple more in there. So, Deb will be reading those and perhaps adding something that maybe occurred to them after they finished their presentation. And while they're doing that Mark will be looking at the Q&A questions that have come in about his topic and then once Deb, Eric and Bill are done answering the questions Mark will chime in for that.
 So, Deb, if you had any questions that you thought were really excellent questions and you wanted to reiterate anything.
 Please do that. Thanks Rob. There is one question from Keith. That's a great question. And he asks about the drop bag weight limitation that Klaus, who used to do backdrop service for us for pvp. What that backdrop limitation was, and I don't know the answer to that.
 I just know that I had a day pack that was packed full and I could carry it on my back without too much trouble. Eric, do you have any idea or bill might you remember any of any of us on the, on the panel.
 I don't. If you start packing it full of, you know, a 12 pack of cans of insure it's probably going to start getting too heavy. Yeah, but if you carry just normal stuff, you know that we're talking about clothes and towel and batteries and whatever, you'll be fine.
 Just keep in mind that between four of us are going to be carrying like, you know, 350 of these things. So, make our lives a little bit easier. Yeah, glad you're strong.
 No, I started this presentation by saying I'm a week old lady.
 That's the only question that we had and the only other thing I want to say is that hang in there with us we are a first time at providing the service, however, the organization I work with does a service similar to this all the time only usually parking bikes.
 I parked 400 bikes yesterday at a century. So I, we know the system, we just are bringing it to France to implement it here for you all, and that we're really excited so that's it on our end I think.
 Before we turn it over to Mark to cover any of the q amp a that he wants to address. There's one thing that I wanted to bring up for on behalf of the people that are offering this drop bank service.
 And that is, is this. So I've heard more than once that supporting somebody riding pvp is nearly as exhausting as it is to ride it.
 And so keep that in mind along with keeping in mind that nobody's going to be getting rich doing this drop bag service and this is largely a volunteer effort here so I imagine that much of this is sent is directed at covering costs.
 So, please keep that in mind. And, and keep in mind that the these volunteers in particular by the time they get back to Rambo yay, they're going to be nearly as tired, if not more tired than you are.
 There's some long nights involved. So, please keep that in mind.
 Yes. Thanks, Rob, I appreciate that. We definitely are not making money on this job. That's not the purpose of it at all. It's we're not a for profit organization. That's not it.
 We're doing this because we want to be a part of the party.
 We don't want to ride but we know that what we're doing is a service to all you guys and that, hopefully, it helps you be as successful with your ride, as it has been in the past for us so that's why we're there.
 And I think Deb mentioned it's always great when you're over there in the middle of everything else to see a friendly face who speaks English who knows their way around. So we all, you know, we look forward to meeting you guys all over there and helping you, however we, however, however we can.
 All right, thank you. Thank you guys. So Mark, did you have any really good Q&A submissions for your coverage?
 As best I can tell, I didn't have any.
 Yeah, there were a number of comments more than questions.
 So I would like to point out just one thing, which is that everything I said is unofficial.
 The source for information about PVP is the ACP, their website, any official communications from them, their emails to you, anything I say or you see on the Roosa site or the PVP prep group is somebody guessing or giving you their best information about what the ACP says,
 don't say, well, Roosa said this. I had a funny experience with running into somebody who was unhappy with how LEL was organized and said that they were going to quit Roosa.
 Perhaps not realizing that Roosa has nothing to do with that event or specifically with the PVP. So take that if you're watching this later and looking at these pieces of information that I put up.
 Let's check with the PVP website, make sure that that's still correct.
 Thanks Mark. There was a comment that I wanted to make relative to your presentation and that would be the timing issue. You mentioned a number of deadlines and also very rightly pointed out that people might be cutting things very close if they were going up to the end of that time limit.
 And I realized I forgot to introduce myself at the beginning of this, and I'll do that now and then give you some context for why I want to bring this up.
 So, my name is Rob Hawks. I am the Roosa Brevet coordinator which means that it's my job along with several other members of the committee to take the results that are filed by RBAs, send them over to the ACP database, upload them, collect the certification
 and then bring them back to the Roosa database and add them in there. We have a plan for addressing the crunch times as they're coming up according to these deadlines that Mark brought out.
 And so we are going to have as up to date as possible people's qualifiers leading up to May 27, for example, and then between May 27 and the end of June, we're working toward keeping everything as up to date as is possible.
 Our work depends on the work of others upstream. Those others would be the RBAs. And also keep in mind when Mark gave weekend dates for when events could happen.
 If you're running, if you're riding a 600K starting on June 24th, it doesn't mean that June 24th is when those results can be submitted because we all know 600Ks take a long time, and then it takes time for the RBA to collect everything.
 So it's not going to be until somewhat later than the 24th that I could even get those results and send them over to the ACP and then bring them back.
 So hopefully that gives some background context for people.
 I'll also point out with respect to those deadlines that May 27 when registration opens is not a time that there's any real reason to slam under the website at 12, you know, 12 noon Paris time because there's nothing really that happens on the 27th that you
 can do that you couldn't do on the 28th or 29th. Exactly. Yeah, in fact, so relax a little bit about the 27th. The key date to keep in mind is June 10th. You want to get that pre that registration started sometime between the 27th and the 10th.
 Yeah, so you have approximately two weeks, a two week window to do that and there's no advantage to be gained by doing it on the 27th that you don't still have on the 9th of June.
 And I think that would be a wrap for today, unless anybody here on the panel has any, anything more to add as there was one more question in the chat. Great, great. Which controls have sleeping accommodations.
 I don't know the full answer to that I know Ludi act does I think to Teniac breast.
 So you can sleep in in car a because I slept on the floor there.
 Any others that you guys remember.
 I understand that there's something or there has been in the past at St. Nicholas to Pellum, which is after car hey outbound and before car hey inbound.
 Right. And more time more time has sleeping because that's exactly and that would be important for the return only. It's unlikely to be needed outbound.
 Yes, I've slept there I remember they were a little bit different they gave you like a half inch thick yoga pad to sleep on which was not the most comfortable.
 Yeah, but you can understand this also something at Kidley act.
 I think that's correct the head sleeping available at St Nicholas.
 And, and Caddy act the interesting changes to this year's routes is that you only pass those once. So San Nicolas will be available outbound and Caddy act will be available inbound St Nicholas is between outbound it's past Ludi act on the way to car hey.
 And I only used it once but I slept one year in Milan.
 They had a dorm in. Yes, I slept there once in 2015 as well. Yeah.
 I think you'll find plenty of opportunities to sleep and then there's other times I slept on the floor of a bar one time they just had a sign out, come sleep out, you know, out of the rain, there's plenty of places to find, find rest, or on a hey bail.
 Hey bail.
 Ditch.
 So that's the classic experience isn't it.
 All right, well thank you everybody. We will conclude this and for those that have watched this live today, and you want to tell your friend, well you want to rewatch it or you want to tell your friends to watch.
 I'm hoping to get this wrapped up later today or early this coming week. So it should be up on YouTube.
 And I will send out the link as soon as I have it to the places that I've advertised that this webinar was happening.
 All right, thanks everybody and have a great day.
