 - So welcome everybody.
 This is the second interview of 2023 with a PPP Ancien.
 And today we have Roger Hoss and Roger has the experience
 of quite a few PPPs in the past.
 This interview is part of a series.
 We did two interviews in 2022, one with Bill Bryant
 and one with Narayan from the Seattle International
 Randonores.
 So we've gone to the Pacific Northwest.
 Number two, rather three in the series, number one this year
 was with Cheryl Becker from San Francisco.
 Now we are leaping across country to the East Coast
 and we've brought Roger Hillis in here.
 So Roger, if you could quickly summarize
 when you started Randonoring, when you joined Rusa
 and maybe go over the PPPs that you have been involved in.
 - I wrote my first Brevet in the fall of 2001.
 It's not on the Rusa website because I wasn't a Rusa member.
 I was just a member of the local club at that time,
 Potomac Paddlers.
 The following year I did in the 2002, I did an SR series
 and wrote Boston Montreal, Boston.
 And then in 2003, did a series, wrote my first PPP.
 I was 50 years old at that time.
 I had a daily 28 mile round trip bicycle commute.
 So that was my training base.
 I didn't really know what I was doing
 but I had the strength and speed to make up
 for it with brute force.
 I finished in 77 hours and 25 minutes.
 So little room to spare, had a lot of fun along the way.
 A lot of laughs.
 There were a bunch of people from our club
 in the same start group.
 I've done four more since then all from the first wave
 of the 84 hour group, the advantage of doing the same start
 even as you get older and slower,
 is you just know where you need to be at a given time.
 You don't have to think too much
 which becomes harder as the ride goes on.
 You know, I'm behind where I wanna be
 or I'm where I wanna be or maybe even it's still daylight.
 I haven't seen this place in daylight for 12 years.
 So I'm doing well.
 - Good, so you've done 84 hour from each PBP
 that you've done, 2003, '07, 2011, 2015 and 2019.
 So when did PBP come on your radar?
 How did you hear about it?
 What did you think about it the first time
 you had heard about it?
 Was it as soon as you heard it
 that you knew it was something you wanted to do
 or did you come to the realization over time
 that, yeah, this is something I wanna try?
 - I found an article about PBP on the web
 and came to Randon Earing that way.
 I think PBP in general and specific
 and Randon Earing in general
 were what I'd always been looking for.
 I'd written, I'd started riding bicycles in the mid '70s
 to get into shape for skiing.
 That's gradually morphed into skiing
 to get into shape for bicycling.
 I'd done some touring in the '80s around Nova Scotia,
 most of the way from Central England
 to the Northern tip of Scotland,
 from Southern England to Everea, Italy,
 where I crashed into a broken down car
 and wound up in a hospital with a broken nose
 and concussion.
 But by 2000, 2001, when I found PBP,
 I was married, I wasn't really in a position
 to go off in long escapades.
 So Randon Earing seemed like a good way
 to do speeded up touring and do it with other people.
 And it must have been 2001
 because I did the Brevet that fall.
 And that was pretty, I assumed,
 when I first found out about PBP,
 I assumed there wouldn't be any qualifying series in DC
 that I'd have to go to Philadelphia, New York or Boston.
 Turned out not to be the case.
 There was already a vibrant Randon Earing community here.
 Our first on-CNs, Dave Burning and Ken Zabalski had done
 PBP in 1987.
 Dave still has a fascinating film he took
 with a super eight mounted on his handlebars.
 Ken went on to do three more
 and was a mentor for me as I prepared to do my first.
 - So you found out about Randon Earing
 without knowing that there was a local region?
 - Right, 'cause I found it complete.
 I found PBP first and then kind of worked backwards to,
 well, how do I qualify?
 And then found the local club,
 which had a perfectly decent website
 and wasn't hard to find.
 And then went from there and enjoyed the people I met,
 enjoyed, we have a wonderful area for doing long rides.
 In a way, a lot like the PBP terrain,
 we're not doing huge mountains,
 but it's pretty relentlessly up and down
 and kind of the same type of workload,
 not climb for 30 minutes to send for 15.
 - So if I understand correctly,
 you found out about Randon Earing
 without knowing that a local region existed,
 but you over time ended up being,
 were you president of that local region?
 - I've just ended a term of four years.
 Ed Felker, who's the other five-time PBP finisher
 from our club has taken the reins.
 We have a young RBA, Emily Ranson.
 We've got some, it was becoming a bit of an old man's club.
 I've outlasted most everybody else,
 but we've got some good dynamic young members
 and they're starting to really take the reins,
 which is exciting.
 - So are you doing Brevets
 with a lot of these younger riders now too?
 - Oh yes, oh yes, except eventually
 they all get better, stronger, faster
 and they're leaving me in their way.
 - So one of the things that I enjoy
 about being an RBA out here in San Francisco
 and being involved with the Brevets
 is seeing people brand new to Randon Earing.
 They kind of show up because they've heard about it
 from friends or they've discovered it somewhere
 and they're not really sure about what they're going to find
 and then they just get super energized
 about participation and a lot of these people
 have gone from the quote newbie
 to showing up on PBP with me.
 I imagine that's something similar for you two.
 - In a way, with the ones who really take to it
 it's been more a matter of the older members
 like Paul Donaldson and myself saying
 you don't have to be a K-Hound your first year.
 You don't have to do, I mean,
 we certainly have people who do multiple 1200s every year,
 but I've seen some young people burn out
 'cause they went too hog wild
 and you want them to stick around for a while.
 - So when you first heard about PBP
 what was your reaction to the notion?
 Was it something that was like right within your wheelhouse
 exactly where you wanted to be headed
 or did you think it was kind of a crazy endeavor?
 - It sounded great to me
 and I started my working career as a medievalist.
 So I love history and PBP has lots and lots of that.
 I love France.
 Like I said, I was looking for bicycle touring on the sly
 and I think PBP qualified.
 It was only later after I registered
 that I thought what am I getting myself into?
 - So how did you deal with that late arriving doubt?
 How did you get past that?
 - Well, just kind of the usual.
 Well, if these other guys can do it,
 I guess I can do it too and if not, I'll suck it up.
 In a way, I think one of my formative influences
 was I wrestled in high school
 and anyone who's wrestled at any level knows
 a lot of wrestling is just about learning to suffer.
 So I figured I'll be pretty good at that.
 - Okay, great.
 Well, we don't really wanna sell
 the notion of suffering on this,
 but there are some tough times
 that one will go through no matter what their experience
 is on a purvey or even PBPR.
 So--
 - Well, and it would be fair to say in that connection
 that my experience touring had taught me
 their bad patches slow down a bit, recoup,
 you'll be moving right along again pretty soon.
 And the suffering part's just about getting through
 the bad stuff so you can get to the good stuff
 of which you're planning.
 - Right, so what was some of the good stuff
 that you found on PBP in 2003?
 I understand from hearing from others,
 I didn't go until 2007 for my first time,
 but I remember the stories that came back
 from my friends who went there
 was how there was a horrible heat wave
 that broke with some thunderstorms.
 And this is very familiar to anybody
 that's done PBP 2011, same sort of thing.
 And then was pretty tolerable weather for that period.
 But so did you show up and be greeted by this heat wave?
 - Yeah, that was one of these amazing heat waves
 where it was 100 degrees plus in Paris,
 which isn't a city with a lot of air conditioning.
 It broke in a huge thunderstorm the night
 before the 90 hours start.
 I remember lying in bed, listening to the thunder,
 thinking how miserable it must have been
 to be all those Dutch guys in the campground
 having their tents knocked over by the wind.
 - Right.
 - But then when that had gone through,
 we had absolutely glorious weather for the entire ride.
 And my greatest memory of 2003
 is just with that wonderful, clear, not too hot,
 sunny weather, the whole thing
 was just a massive street festival.
 They're always fans out to watch,
 but there were a lot more that year.
 Everybody was smiling.
 And I hope for those doing their first PBP in '23,
 we have weather anywhere near that good.
 - Right.
 So I understand in 2007,
 which is the notoriously rainy year in recent memory,
 the people in the 84 hour group
 didn't quite have the same dismal experience
 as the 80 and 90 hour people, is that true?
 - Very true.
 2011 was the year the 84 hour group got hammered.
 - Oh yeah.
 In 2007, the Sunday night starters got hit badly by rain.
 The 84 hour group rode on wet roads a lot.
 There was some light rain.
 It dampened the spirit some,
 but it wasn't cataclysmic.
 - Uh-huh, yeah.
 So 2011, you're mentioning the thunderstorms
 that hit, I believe those hit sometime afternoon
 or the early afternoon.
 So we got out to Valen-la-jouel on the 84 hour start
 before we got drummed by some terrible, terrible storms.
 I just remember lots of lightning bolts,
 lots of peeling thunder and super heavy rain.
 And then the morning of the second day for us
 as we're leaving Ludiak, a lot of fog
 that eventually started to lift on the way back from breast.
 And then we had fairly nice weather,
 if I remember correctly, from there on in.
 - 2011 was a special PPP for me
 because in November of the preceding year,
 I'd been run into by another bicyclist
 on my commute to work.
 I'd gone over the handlebars
 and landed hard on the pavement,
 fracturing my femur at the neck.
 So that was hip surgery,
 then five and a half months off the bike.
 So I entered PPP with really minimal miles in my legs,
 each qualifying Brevet at the end.
 I said, okay, that's it, no more.
 Two weeks later, I showed up for the next one.
 And I remember as a result, because I was so marginal,
 because anything could have been the feather
 that broke the camel's back.
 There were four waves of just the most violent
 thunderstorms possible outbound on the first day.
 I remember thinking before the last one,
 I was getting pretty close to Ludiak
 and I finally dried out from the third wave
 and thought, oh, if I can just get out there
 without getting soaked again
 and pow, another round.
 But in fact, day two was a bit ambiguous,
 day three was very sunny.
 And we had a really brisk tailwind,
 which helped me a tremendous amount.
 I think I spent most of that day coasting
 and then the final day took care of itself.
 - So one takeaway, I think,
 from somebody that can relate the experiences
 from 2003, '07, '11, '15 and '19
 is that, you know, be prepared for nearly anything.
 You know, get ready for that sort of stuff.
 I mean, that's something that I stress to people
 myself is that, you know, I've done '07, '11, '15 and '19
 and I've never done a PBP without getting rained on.
 Sometimes it's just a little bit,
 but other times it's just been dumped on.
 - And that's where 2003 was the real exception.
 And I think there are two parts of being prepared.
 One is the physical.
 It gets colder than you think in Northwestern France,
 especially on a clear night, it can go down
 to the low 40s, high 30s.
 So take a little more clothing than you need.
 Air on the safe side.
 Clothing takes out space, but it doesn't wear way much.
 The other side is where I've seen people go wrong
 is they have a plan and they're gonna stick to it
 no matter what.
 And I think the weather is one of the things
 that you need to be a little flexible.
 If you have good weather, push a little harder
 and bank some time, especially with headwinds,
 my approach has always been slow down a bit.
 Don't kill yourself getting nowhere.
 Save the energy for more favorable conditions
 which will come at some point.
 - All right.
 So, lost my train of thought.
 I'm sorry about that.
 So talk a bit more about the advice
 that you've been given at the start
 and then how that's kind of morphed into the advice
 that you wanna give to people.
 - I think by then the web, by 2003, the web existed
 and there was plenty of advice solicited and unsolicited.
 I think Ken Zabalski who mentored me
 was more a big picture guy.
 Pace yourself, have your equipment dialed in
 and then don't mess with it.
 You're part of something a lot bigger than yourself
 so enjoy it.
 And just enjoy the quirks of the French
 and of the ride and of the people around you.
 - You were talking about pacing
 and people getting a plan
 and being unable to deviate from that plan.
 Let's talk about that a little bit here
 and maybe talk about the advantages of having a plan
 and then the pitfalls of having that.
 And one of the memorable things that I have
 that I always think back to
 and that if I remind myself about it,
 especially later in the ride when I have less,
 I don't know, perhaps judgment available
 is that I saw somebody at the passing
 by the crepes stand that is after Fougere, I think it is.
 I mean, yes, Paul Rocher's garage and live time AR.
 - And I had heard about that place
 and had stopped there.
 This was in 2015, so it was the second time through.
 And I wanted to share that with that rider that I knew
 and say, "Hey, this is one of those iconic places.
 Stop, get off your bike, talk to people."
 And his response was, "No, I've got to make time."
 And I'm thinking, well, what are you making time for?
 You know, if you can't take in some of the wonderful things
 about this and take the advantage of interacting
 with people from other places.
 So that's where I wanted to take this conversation right now.
 - Yeah, if you're trying to do it in 44 hours
 and being one of the premier,
 you're not gonna have time for this stuff,
 but the rest of us, enjoy yourself
 and have a crepe at Paul Rocher's,
 find the guy who's grilling galette sausages
 at the Ludiac control.
 They usually have fresh pate in Tintiniac.
 Enjoy the party that's valine.
 This is, and then just the incidental things you see,
 which can be the things you blunder into
 can be the most wonderful, I call them PPP moments, right?
 They're always a few every ride.
 - Yeah, you mentioned Tintiniac.
 And I have a nice story that, you know,
 I would like for this to give people pause for thought
 about what it is that they want to get out of PPP.
 So the first year that I was able to finish
 the whole course was 2011.
 And in 2011, as I'm coming back into Tintiniac,
 you know, there were lots of crowds on the sides of the road
 and the place was just, it was happening, big parties.
 And as I rode through there, unbeknownst to me,
 there was a local that was taking photographs of people.
 And then after I got home, after PPP,
 I found some of these photos just by accident
 and found, you know, I was in there.
 And I connected to the photographer.
 And then, you know, we would keep up with each other
 through email.
 And then in 2019, he was waiting for me
 when I arrived in Tintiniac and, you know,
 we got a chance to meet face to face and sit down
 and he watched me eat a baguette and maybe two bites.
 But, you know, as we come into these villages,
 we see people that are out there watching the procession
 go by and, you know, they applaud.
 And, you know, there's lots of stuff concurrent
 with this stream of the world
 coming by these very small villages.
 And this was one instance where, for me,
 I got to take it one more step
 where I actually talked to these people
 and kind of found out some of the things
 that they're interested in.
 You know, why was it that they were there
 watching on the side of the road?
 - Can I give you my two favorite PPP experiences?
 - Absolutely, please do.
 - The first one was in 2007.
 No, it was in 2011
 because the first two iterations
 I'd ridden up near the front of the 84-hour group
 the first time 'til Lawn Yee
 and the second time for 30 or 40 miles anyway
 and going straight to Mortania
 and felt pretty lousy when I got there.
 So in 2011, I decided I was gonna stop somewhere halfway
 and eat something.
 And Chateauneuf on Tumorai,
 which is about halfway there,
 looked like a likely place
 'cause it's a little bigger than most of the other towns.
 Well, I'm going through town.
 I see a patisserie on my right and keep going
 and then think about 200 yards later.
 No, I really wanna go back there
 and have some, get something to eat.
 Is it, I do, a guy comes up to me with a thermos
 and says, "Would you like some coffee?"
 And I said, "Well, no, thank you.
 I think I wanna get some food in me first.
 This is in French, but better to tell it in English."
 And I go back to the patisserie
 and I head back to the patisserie
 and as I get there, a friend, John Gardner, comes by
 and he's angry 'cause he's going into the patisserie
 and he wants coffee
 and the patisserie didn't have any coffee set.
 So I said, "Well, there's a guy right up the street
 with a thermos who will give you coffee."
 I went into the patisserie.
 I didn't see John till, I think the next day
 and he had this amazing story
 that the guy with the coffee had brought it
 for a friend he never found.
 He'd so liked John that he gave him the coffee
 and then followed along the course for a while.
 And the story ends with the guy
 watching him finish in Paris,
 picking John out from the crowd.
 So that's standing in your lawn
 and clapping is pretty impressive,
 but that sort of supports really amazing.
 The second one is also 2011, I believe,
 the third morning I wake up in Ludiac
 and morning's not my best time of day on these rides.
 And as I go over to the tent with the bike shop
 'cause I need to inflate my tires some,
 I use latex tubes, so they really do get low
 if you don't reinflate them.
 And another friend Chip Adams is there
 with his bike up in the stand
 and it turns out that his frame is cracked.
 And it had been making noises,
 he'd made it to Ludiac, he took it to the mechanics,
 it was toast.
 And he starts asking, well, where's the train station
 and when's the next train come?
 And the mechanics are saying in French,
 we'll lend you a bike.
 If you'll take it to this bike store
 somewhere on the Champs-Elysees and I'm saying to Chip-Chip,
 no, no, it's gonna work out, it's gonna work out.
 Well, it did, they took him to the store,
 I went on my way, that was when I was recovering
 from the broken hip, so I couldn't dally too long.
 While Chip was at the store, he got Klaus Klassen
 on the phone and Klaus translated for him,
 but they set him up with a bike,
 said they'd meet him in Paris
 and Chip completed the ride.
 And again, the store owner,
 oh, I forget his name is Clarice and Pascal,
 showed up at the finish and Chip says
 as he came around the circle out in front of the gymnast,
 they'd what, he heard someone saying,
 cheap, cheap, cheap, and there was Pascal,
 I'm told that Chip's photo sits on their wall to this day,
 the Ludiak photographer took a photo of this whole scene,
 so I have it and I chuckle every time I see it.
 - Oh, those are great stories.
 I'm like to hear that stuff like that.
 So I don't know if you remember meeting me
 in 2007 at PPP?
 Because-- - I don't,
 I remember you passed me in 2011.
 - But we knew each other before that interaction
 and I believe it was 2007 that I met you,
 but every PPP since then,
 you and I have met each other,
 well, because you've done 84 hours starts and so have I.
 And it's always been really nice for me to go back
 and run into familiar faces
 and we would meet each other out on the route several times.
 So that's always been great.
 Have you found, have you met people on PPP
 that ended up being lifelong friends
 and you've done more stuff with or for example,
 maybe somebody from your club that you didn't ride with before
 but you interacted with more on PPP, something like that?
 - Oddly, not so much on PPP.
 And I do think that 84 hours starts a bit more
 of a little club within the bigger event.
 I think there may be a little more camaraderie.
 I became friends with David Leonard
 who from what was in the Davis Bike Club in 2002
 and our wives are both very much friends
 and we see each other a lot.
 In doing the Gold Rush in 2017,
 I wrote some with Mike Krast
 and he and I stay in touch with each other.
 But-
 - Yeah, I'll be riding with Mike this weekend.
 We're doing our 400K, so I'll see Mike.
 - And he's doing the 84 hours start.
 So you'll see more of him.
 - Yes, right.
 Well, I've ridden with him quite a few times this year.
 He and I met many years ago
 and unfortunately we've never been able to do PPP together.
 Hopefully this time coming up will be the trick.
 So what kinds of things other than you mentioned
 that people should try and get as much out of this
 as they can be prepared to do things in addition to PPP
 What are some examples of those sorts of things?
 Like out on the course, think of some things
 that you'd wanna point out to people to say,
 "Hey, don't miss this."
 Where they might, if they were head down
 trying to rush to make time on something.
 - You've got the discovery of France behind you.
 I think the best thing, learn French if you can,
 but it's a little late for that realistically.
 But Graham Robbs, wonderful discovery of France
 for which he claims to have bicycled 14,000 miles
 around France is a glorious introduction
 to how France, which was really a conglomeration
 of very different regions,
 many of which spoke different languages
 before the revolution became as a result of the revolution,
 the Napoleonic Empire and then the 19th century,
 a far more unified country.
 And my hobby horse is when people write about how wonderful
 the French are at PPP, they're missing something important,
 which is that most of those people
 don't view themselves as French.
 They view themselves as Normans
 or they really view themselves as Bretons.
 And I learned this from reading,
 but also my first PPP in 2003,
 I was riding along on the afternoon of the first day
 and a dapper looking fellow somewhat older than me
 pulled up next to me.
 There were his bike and everything looked French.
 So I said, "Vous êtes Français?"
 And he looked at me and very calmly said,
 "Je suis Breton."
 And there's a whole lot of meaning in those words.
 - Yeah.
 So one of the things that you'll notice most obviously
 as you're riding from Paris westward toward Brest
 is the change in the structure of the names
 of the villages that you go through.
 What are some other things that people should look out for
 that help signify this change of almost riding
 from one country into another within France?
 - Well, you'll notice the castles,
 the best castles are at,
 oh, I'm forgetting the name of it,
 on the way from Vélaine to Fugère.
 And then, Vérim à Fugère has an immense castle.
 Well, the border between France and Brittany,
 which was a separate duchy until 1528,
 is just east of Fugère.
 And that whole region Normandy,
 mine, Brittany was fought over
 not just by the central French and the locals,
 but also the English were involved
 because the English kings held immense properties in France
 and hence a lot of big castles.
 But there's another wonderful book,
 Barry Conlos, Bretons and Britons, published 2001,
 that's a history of Brittany from the very beginning
 by one of the world's preeminent prehistoric archeologists.
 But there are all sorts of funny facts.
 Fugère was a major center of shoe manufacture
 in the 19th century.
 Hulgo, which is kind of a nothing town
 as you approach Roc Trevizel, was a site of silver mining
 6,000 years ago and has a very old prehistoric,
 the remains of a very old prehistoric fort meeting place,
 which you wouldn't guess just by looking, but it's there.
 - So that's the location where outbound,
 you've left Carre behind,
 and I think you're going through a national forest.
 - Yeah, and you climb a lot and Hulgo is kind of the top
 of the climb till you rejoin the main road
 and go up Roc Trevizel.
 It has a little lake that I've taken a nap
 next to once or twice.
 - Yeah, I remember that from 2019,
 especially where there seemed to be a lot of piles of timber
 on the sides of the road there.
 I remember somebody, I was riding with challenging me
 to pronounce the name of the town
 that you've just mentioned here.
 And when you look at it written,
 your pronunciation isn't something
 that I would have figured out from looking at that.
 - Well, and then the Breton name start appearing
 on the road signs and you're totally,
 all the Breton you need to know is Kungaman,
 which is the very caloric pastry.
 That's kind of perfect for re-undenurring.
 - Yeah, so there is a part of the route
 where you do see the names of towns
 in two different languages.
 - Which is French and Breton.
 - Right, right.
 So I've asked you a number of questions
 and we've talked about things that you want people to know.
 Let's think a minute here or let you think a minute here
 and come up with, is there anything that I haven't asked you
 that you'd like to comment on?
 - A few more random suggestions.
 - Sure.
 - You used to hear it said that you should prepare
 for a 1200 by riding through the night on the 600.
 My own view is you're better off
 if you want to do that doing a night start 400
 like we're going to run here in DC and in June,
 that what you should really,
 if this is your first time doing all this
 is practice sleeping on the 600.
 Because it's a lot harder than you think
 to fall asleep when you're really tired and really wound up.
 And if you can fall asleep, that sleep is going to really
 help you down the road.
 - Okay.
 So this brought it to mind.
 Something that's a little bit related here.
 Have you ever been injured on PDP?
 - No, I've been lucky.
 I've only had one flat tire.
 - Wow.
 That was in 2011 when I couldn't really spare
 the time very well.
 - Right.
 - I did have one really strange incident in 2007.
 - What's that?
 - I was running a very unlimited campy triple 10 grouper.
 And there was some basic trouble with the geometry
 of the front derailleur.
 You couldn't mount it so it didn't rub
 without turning it sideways.
 And it meant I kept throwing the chain
 over the big chain ring.
 - Oh.
 - And this had been going on for a while
 and I was kind of used to it.
 And I just pedal it back on.
 Well, somewhere between Cadillac
 and St. Main Legrand,
 I threw the chain over the big chain rail,
 tried to pedal it back on and instead kinked the chain.
 So it had, without breaking, had two loops in it.
 - Ooh, nice.
 - And I thought to myself,
 I can't walk to Ludiac in the time available to me.
 I gotta fix this.
 So by the light of a helmet light
 and with a small portable chain tool,
 I broke the chain, which by 10 speed
 you weren't supposed to do, took the kinks out
 and then put the link back in very, very, very carefully.
 Got it going, went to the next town
 where there was literally one light bulb that was lit up
 and it was over the one intersection in the town,
 pushed it in a little further and made it to Ludiac.
 So it was a little discouraging.
 Nobody stopped to offer to help.
 Nobody asked me how I was doing.
 They all just kind of went by.
 But it is an argument for being able to do mechanical fixes
 if possible, 'cause you might need to.
 And just, again, I've kind of by accident
 sidled up to the other point I'd really like to make,
 especially to Americans, stay calm.
 Things are gonna go bad, relax.
 Getting excited doesn't help.
 I stayed calm and fixed this chain.
 I, in 2003, a guy was melding down in front of me
 in the line for food at Ludiac.
 And I said to him, "Relax.
 "You're wasting energy, you're gonna need."
 French lines don't move like American lines.
 Two people get talking and it all stops.
 It's part of the experience.
 Just enjoy it.
 - So you've never had any lingering issues,
 like neuropathy and you never had Shermer's neck
 or you've never suffered.
 This is something that got to me in 2019.
 It took weeks to get over the baguette injuries
 that I had after eating so many baguettes.
 - Oh, God. (laughs)
 - So perhaps, you know, we might suggest
 that people practice eating baguettes before they go over.
 - Yeah, really, the broken hip in 2011 I brought with me.
 I really, I've never had any real injuries.
 I've certainly never had Shermer's neck.
 I've never had anything that hurt that much
 other than my butt's gotten pretty sore a few times
 and you just start up really gingerly
 and then if you do better.
 The last day in 2019,
 my back did start to hurt a great deal.
 And it does at a certain point kind of take the fun out of it.
 I was close enough to the finish that that wasn't a problem.
 But usually with a few hours of sleep at Mortania,
 I'm ready to just kind of roll on the fourth day
 and it was less true.
 - So you're going in August, correct?
 - I'm going in August and it's gonna be a new adventure
 'cause the plan had always been to do my last one
 in the 90-hour group and see what that was like.
 The line of red lights that 84 hours
 is a lot more getting down to business.
 It starts with an open road
 and people are going pretty hard right from the opening gun
 and the 84-hour group.
 So I'm gonna, I think probably the 90-hour group,
 you lose a lot of your advantage just to waiting,
 but I wanna see what that's like
 and I'm four months in my 70th, short of my 70th birthday.
 So this is definitely the last one
 and I may need all the time I can get.
 - Okay, all right.
 Well, I'm sure to run into you while over there this time.
 And so it would be great to see you there.
 Kind of sad to hear that you know that this is your last one.
 Does that make you approach this any differently
 other than picking the 90-hour group?
 - No, I'll probably treasure it.
 I treasure 2003 'cause it was my first
 and the weather was so darn good.
 I think this will be a bit of a tour down memory lane.
 You may just catch me this year Rob.
 - This is true, yeah.
 I've noticed, I didn't know this until 2015,
 but the 84-hour group begins to catch 90-hour riders
 in Fougere on the first day.
 So Fougere is like 360 miles in, I think.
 - 309, it's 39, okay.
 Yeah, so 300--
 - Nine kilometers, it's basically just 300
 and a little bit more.
 - Right, yeah, 300K in.
 And that's kind of mind-boggling
 that you're already beginning to catch 90-hour riders.
 And then just through the rest of the ride,
 there's just more and more.
 And until you find the return,
 when you 84-hour group people get to Villanajuel,
 it's everybody there.
 All the 90-hour people seem to be there at the same time
 as the 84-hour rolling in.
 So hopefully we'll run into you somewhere along the way,
 but hopefully we'll see you before the whole shebang starts.
 - Yeah, well, I got on the bull when
 Stacy Klein put out something to rand on
 about reservations in Ramboyer.
 So I'm staying at the Mercure right by the start line.
 - Then you will definitely see me there.
 - Great, oh, good.
 Well, I look forward to that.
 - Well, Roger, thanks for sitting for this interview
 and imparting your experience to the rest of us.
 I wish you all the luck on PVP 2023,
 and we'll see you there, thanks.
 - Same back at you, Rob,
 and it'll be a pleasure to see you
 and other old friends too.
 - Sure, yeah, all right, thanks again.
